# Recognizing pictured food dishes using Deep Learning and PyTorch

Here's the table of contents:

1. TOC
{:toc}

Deep learning is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks with representation learning. Deep learning is a subset of machine learning and machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence (AI). It uses multiple layers to progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in image processing, lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces.

In this project, we will use deep learning with PyTorch framework to build a model that can recognize pictured food dishes.

**Dataset:** Food-101

https://s3.amazonaws.com/fast-ai-imageclas/food-101.tgz

This dataset contains 101 food categories, with 101,000 images; 250 test images and 750 training images per class. The training images were not cleaned. All images were rescaled to have a maximum side length of 512 pixels.

This and similar additional datasets are available at - https://course.fast.ai/datasets

## Steps

1. Pick a dataset - https://s3.amazonaws.com/fast-ai-imageclas/food-101.tgz
2. Download the dataset
3. Import the dataset using pytorch
4. Explore the dataset
5. Prepare the dataset for training
6. Move the dataset to the GPU
7. Define a neural network - ResNet9
8. Train the model
9. Make predictions on sample images, Iterate on it with different networks and hyperparameters
10. Next Steps


## EDA and model architecture

After downloading the dataset and extracting, we split the image data into `train` and `val` using `train.txt` and `test.txt`.

After performing some exploratory data analysis (EDA) and visualization, let's create a subset of data with few classes - `train_mini` and `val_mini` for experimenting and and try different architectures, working on the whole  data with 101 classes takes a lot of time and computation. To proceed with further experiments, let's create `train_mini` and `val_mini`, limiting the dataset to 3+ classes. Since the original problem is multiclass classification which makes key aspects of architectural decisions different from that of binary classification, choosing 3+ classes is a good start instead of 2.

After experimenting with few model architectures, we zeroed in on using a resnet model.

### Hyperparameters

batch_size=128,
arch='ResNet9',
epochs=[5, 5, 5, 5],
lrs=[0.001, 0.001, 1e-4, 1e-4],
opt=['Adam', 'Adam', 'Adam', 'SGD'])

Training this model on GPU with sampled dataset resulted in approx 78% val_accuracy.


### Next Steps

Possible next steps:

- Try transfer learning
- Use data augmentation, normalization, weight decay, one fit cycle etc. to improve model
- Experiment with various pretrained model like resnet, VGG, inceptions etc.

### Complete project notebook

For reference, project notebook is available at:

[https://jovian.ai/ranga4all1/deep-learning-project-pytorch-food101](https://jovian.ai/ranga4all1/deep-learning-project-pytorch-food101)